During the Abbasid rule, the lavished economic condition of the country allowed people to peruse reading, learning and research in all disciplines. People were encouraged to learn; books were manually copied and sold in numerous libraries and bookshops. The works of the Greeks, Persians and others were translated and made available to every household. Islamic teachings also make it obligatory for all Muslims to peruse and acquire knowledge of all the sciences.
Through these conditions, the critical conditions needed for the birth of “Cryptanalysis” or deciphering an encrypted message were realised. This was first achieved by the Muslim scholar, Al-Kindi.

Abu Yusuf Ya’qub ibn Ishaq Al-Kindi, better known to the west as Alkindous, was an ethnic Arab descending from the royal Kindah tribe, which originated in southern Arabia and had almost mythical routes such as Qayss.

Al-Kindi was born in Kufa, Iraq round year 800 CE, which was at the time a centre for Islamic learning and culture. This ensured that he was able to acquire the best possible education. His father was the governor of Kufa as was his father before him. However, Al-Kindi chose to or rather was asked to move to Baghdad by the Caliph Al- Ma’mun, where he was appointed as a calligrapher at the newly established academy known as the House of Wisdom (Bayt al-Hikma). There Al-Kindi together with Al-Khawarizmi and the Banu Musa Brothers worked on translating Greek texts to Arabic. Although it is thought that Al-Kindi did not participate much in the actual translations, it is more likely that he brushed up on the works of others and may have done some editing and corrections. you can have your flag now shellmates{JustASimpleAnalysis}

Al-Kindi was certainly influenced by the Greek Philosophers particularly Socrates and Aristotle whose translated works he used. This can be seen from many of Al-Kindi’s own works on Philosophy. To his people Al-Kindi was known for his work on Philosophy, but he also did some work on Mathematics, Medicine, Optics, Astronomy and many other sciences of importance and of interest at that time.
